# PSY511
# this is a R markdown file for my final project
# I intend to create a research project website and workflow for my master thesis proposal
# Abstract: 
# The Complementary System Theory (CST; Davis & Gaskell, 2009) proposes that word learning entails two memory networks. Novel words are initially encoded as episodic memory traces by the hippocampal learning system. After a subsequent period of consolidation, a shift towards more systematic, lexicalized coding of the memory representation in a distributed neocortical network occurs. Previous research on CST and consolidation mostly focuses on learning new word forms, without explicitly taking semantics into account. 
# Recently researchers have started investigating the role of word meanings. For example, in an ERP study by Bakker et al. (2015), participants learned novel printed words paired with novel meanings. Indexed by N400 and LPC components, Bakker et al. found that novel word forms had been lexicalized after a 24-hour consolidation period, whereas the semantic integration process has started but was not yet completed. 
# For my Master's thesis research, I propose to further examine the role of meaning by manipulating the amount of semantic overlap between to-be-learned L2 words and their L1 translations. Specifically, some new L2 words will share all semantic features with the semantic features of their L1 translations, whereas semantic features of other L2 words will only partially overlap with those of their L1 translations. In addition, the novel words will be learned via two types of training: by associating the new L2 word with a definition or with a picture. After training, a semantic priming task will be administered and EEG responses will be recorded on three occasions: immediately after exposure, 24 hours later and 7 days later.
# Both adults (Experiment 1) and children (Experiment 2) will be tested. Given children's relatively short attention span, further adjustments will be decided upon on the basis of the results obtained from adults. From a language development prospective, children are still developing their mental lexicon in their first language. A recent study on implicit word learning revealed that children’s expressive vocabulary size correlates positively with overnight consolidation as evidenced in the lexical competition effect (Henderson et al., 2015). However, to our knowledge no research has been published that examined this relation in the consolidation of explicitly learned words. 
